# Chapter 3: New Data Workflows for Enterprises
#### Difficulty: **2/5** \| Estimated reading time: **5 min**

<dialog character="squid"> We have been living in the information economy for at least 20 years, but mental models to deal with Data are still often outdated.
</dialog>

How should we think about data for the next decade?

**Data as an asset**. Data is often compared to oil, but the metaphor is flawed. Oil is burnt to release energy and it can be found in nature. But data is generated by humans, and it does not get wasted when consumed, it stays where it is. Value is extracted from data when data is wrangled, analyzed and aggregated with other data.

**Data as a liability**. Most companies consider data as an asset. But regulation is increasing the burden for companies to keep their data compliant. Processes, organization charts, and IT infrastructure are affected. For this reason, some companies try to avoid any ‘personally identifiable’ data given the legal risk such data may represent. Sometimes, data cannot be shared even within the same company between teams because of regulations like GDPR, Europe’s strict data protection framework.

**Data as a locked good**. In the legacy data economy, there is no easy way to give an algorithm access to one’s data without revealing the data itself. So, companies prefer to keep their data locked and unused, rather than risk losing exclusive and safe ownership; they would “better be safe than sorry”. Providing a way to share access to data easily and securely within and across organizations represents a major opportunity to create value from that data.

**Unlocking data with open infrastructure**. Ocean Protocol provides open and safe infrastructure dedicated to data exchanges which breaks silos and allows value creation. It makes new collaborations possible, increases data sharing while cutting transaction costs down. Network effects of a liberalized data platform are expected to be huge.

**Dealing with Enterprise Data**. Enterprises can use this infrastructure to reorganize their internal data flows, start to safely monetize unused data, and craft new value creation strategies. The first ones that will transition to this new operating model might have a decisive advantage in their respective vertical(s).

**Monetizing Enterprise Data**. The infrastructure enables collaboration with external partners on data creation, aggregation, and governance. Collaboration is safe, because it does not mean giving up control and ownership over company data to monetize it. The potential for new insights, data products, workflows, and business models is quite significant.

**Community data**. Companies that heavily rely on the input of their users can further increase engagement with their community and provide them access to the data pool that was produced by them. This might lead to new forms of collectively owned datasets like data unions, for example.
