# Chapter 15: Identity and Metadata
#### Difficulty: **3/5** \| Estimated reading time: **5 min**

<dialog character="mantaray">Before discovering how the ocean marketplace is populated, let’s first understand how Ocean assigns every dataset a unique ID.</dialog>

**Metadata.** When huge amounts of data are available in data markets, it is important to effectively search and find the right datasets. Metadata enables that. Accurate metadata is key for having an organized, discoverable, and easy to access the dataset. Metadata is data that describes other data. In this case the data of the asset we want to interact with via Ocean Protocol. Metadata is created by the publisher of the asset. During the publishing process, the publisher provides the file URLs as plaintext. A metadata store encrypts the URLs and stores them in a backend. The metadata store used in Ocean Protocol is called Aquarius. The data itself can be saved anywhere, you only need to provide a valid URL to the data.

**Dataset management**. Ocean Protocol offers different tools to customize the description of the data. The metadata is mainly used for marketplaces for data asset discovery. Each dataset has a unique identifier called a DID which points to a DID document (DDO) that stores the metadata. The DDO is basically a JSON file with filled metadata fields.

As we said earlier the metadata itself is never stored on-chain. Aquarius, the metadata store handles the actual documents while only DIDs are stored on-chain. A DID identifies your asset in the entire Ocean Ecosystem. Each asset has a different DID, as DIDs are generated by hashing your metadata into a hex string (e.g. MD5, [checksum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Checksum)). This is done to keep data storage on the blockchain to a minimum, as we saw earlier that it’s costly and impractical.

## Decentralized Identifier (DID)
**DIDs make data assets discoverable and usable**. Each Ocean Protocol data asset gets an identity in the form of a DID (Decentralized Identifier) and associated DDOs (DID Descriptor Objects). DIDs are standardized and can be automatically discovered in the Ocean Protocol.

In Ocean, a DID is a string that looks like:
*did:op:0ebed8226ada17fde24b6bf2b95d27f8f05fcce09139ff5cec31f6d81a7cd2ea*

The string is unique and allows you to find and identify the dataset among others. Saving this DID on the Ethereum mainnet allows finding the corresponding DDO document using Aquarius. This means that once the write-fee is paid, there are no further expenses or dev-ops work needed to ensure metadata availability in the future, aiding in the discoverability of data assets.


##DID document (DDO)
A DID has its own associated DDO, which includes claims and metadata. It is a JSON document with information about the asset. Each type of asset (dataset, algorithm, workflow, etc) has different kinds of services associated with them. There are many types of services that are added to all the assets:

- metadata - describing the asset
- provenance - describing the asset provenanceaccess
- describing how the asset can be downloaded
- compute - describing how the asset can be computed upon

A DDO document is composed of standard DDO attributes:

- @context
- id
- created
- updated
- publicKey
- authentication
- proof
- verifiableCredential
- DataToken
- service