# Chapter 14: Identity and Metadata

<dialog character="mantaray"> Before discovering how the ocean marketplace is populated, let’s first understand how Ocean assign every dataset a unique ID.</dialog>

At this point you might wonder When a lot of data is available in data markets, it becomes important to be able to effectively search and find the right data sets. Metadata enables that. Describing the metadata accurately is key for having an organized and easy to access dataset. Metadata is data that describes other data. In this case the data of the asset we want to interact via Ocean.

**Metadata** is first created by the publisher of the asset. During the publishing process, the publisher provides the file URLs as plaintext, which will be encrypted by a metadata store (Aquarius) in the backend and stored as encrypted URLs. So the data itself can be saved anywhere, you only need to provide a valid url to the data.

**Dataset management.** In general OCEAN offers different tools to enable you to customize your description of the data. The metadata is mainly used for marketplaces for data asset discovery. Dataset has an unique identifier. Ocean introduced a decentralized identifier (DID) that resolves to a DID document (DDO) for associated metadata. The DDO is basically a JSON ​​ filling in metadata fields.

As we said earlier Metadata is never stored on-chain as it is. Its costly operation to store this big JSON. Thats why Aquarius exists. Only DIDs are stored on-chain (DIDs are generated by hashing metadata)

In layman’s terms, a DID uniquely identifies your asset in the entire Ocean Ecosystem. Each asset has a different DID, as DIDs are normally generated by hashing your metadata into a hex string (e.g. MD5, checksum etc). This is done to prevent limited and costly storage on the blockchain.

**Decentralized Identifier (DID)**
Each Ocean user, asset, and group of users (clan) gets an identity in the form of a DID (Decentralized Identifier) and associated DDOs (DID Descriptor Objects). This improves discoverability and usability of data assets. DIDs are standardized and can be automatically discovered using the Ocean Protocols.

In Ocean, a DID is a string that looks like:
**did:op:0ebed8226ada17fde24b6bf2b95d27f8f05fcce09139ff5cec31f6d81a7cd2ea**
This string is unique and allows you to find and identify the dataset among others. Ocean uses the Ethereum mainnet as an on-chain metadata store, i.e. to store both DID and DDO. This means that once the write fee is paid, there are no further expenses or dev-ops work needed to ensure metadata availability into the future, aiding in the discoverability of data assets

**DID document (DDO)**
A DID has its own associated DDO, which includes claims and metadata. Some of that metadata points to specific asset resources. Metadata is stored in OceanDB that is run by marketplaces. Asset metadata is one part of Ocean DDOs. This is a JSON object with information about the asset.

A DDO document is composed of standard DDO attributes:
@context
id
created
updated
publicKey
authentication
proof
verifiableCredential
DataToken
service
Asset metadata can be included as one of the objects inside the "service" array, with type "metadata".

**DDO Services**
Each type of asset (dataset, algorithm, workflow, etc, ..) typically will have associated different kinds of services. There are multiple type of services that are commonly added to all the assets:
**metadata** - describing the asset
**provenance** - describing the asset provenance
**access** - describing how the asset can be downloaded
**compute** - describing how the asset can be computed upon
