# Chapter 12: Buying and Selling Data using Ocean Protocol
#### Difficulty: **3/5** \| Estimated reading time: **5 min**

<dialog character="jellyfish">Look how these marine creatures interact. Some stay still, some move around. They wander, they transact.</dialog>

**Storing an immutable reference**. In the previous chapter we learned that it’s 1) too expensive to directly upload data to the Ethereum blockchain and 2) it disables us to have any kind of control regarding the access of the data. So why don’t we just save our data in a place where we can control access and provide a link to the data on the blockchain?
We can easily modify the *store()* function to accept a link and additional metadata to describe the data. Everyone can find a link to our data and access it then. But how do we control access to the data? We would also need to manage payments, sign-ups, data access control, provide an interface, advertise our data so that someone can find it at all. But at this point, why would we use a blockchain, since nothing is happening on the blockchain anyways?

**Automation**. The key bottleneck is that each marketplace would have access to only a fraction of all data available, and it would find it difficult to align on common standards without giving up some level of independence. In that world, we would have to register to dozens of different marketplaces with the hope of finding the data we want. We would probably have to pay to register, which makes sense since every marketplace has infrastructure and overhead costs to provide their service. That's the legacy model, and the user experience isn't great in it.
It would be easier to have a central repository to store information about data, which anyone can query. But since none of the marketplaces would want to become dependent on a single third party, that central authority cannot be another institution. The only truly neutral solution is to have an independent smart contract where everyone can register their data. A blockchain can enable collaboration among competitors, just like that.

**Introducing Ocean Protocol**. This is exactly what the protocol does. It implements standards on how to provide a valid link to the data, description, and further metadata. Now data marketplaces need only to query Ocean smart contracts to list available datasets. Payments for data exchanges are also part of the solution. When someone buys the data from a data marketplace the marketplace converts it into ETH and sends it directly to the user, taking their fee. Now if you want to buy a new dataset you could just visit your favorite data marketplace and see which dataset matches your needs, knowing that you are searching the entire ocean of available data, not just a fraction of it.

Ocean Protocol provides a standard way to do all of this. Eventually, it increases the quality of data markets since they can focus their limited resources on providing additional features that might be useful for their users instead of reimplementing a payment process yet again.
