# Chapter 16: Identity and Metadata
#### Difficulty: **3/5** \| Estimated reading time: **5 min**

<dialog character="mantaray">Before discovering how the ocean marketplace is populated, let’s first understand how Ocean assigns every dataset a unique ID.</dialog>

**Metadata**. When huge amounts of data are available in data markets, it becomes important to be able to effectively search and find the right datasets. Metadata enables that. Accurate metadata makes it easy to discover datasets and assess their relevance for prospective buyers. Metadata is created during the publishing process in Ocean Protocol, stored on-chain and cached in a store called Aquarius for fast retrieval.

**Dataset management**. Ocean Protocol offers different tools to customize the description of the data. Each dataset has a unique identifier called a Decentralized ID (DID), which points to a DID Descriptor Object (DDO) that stores the metadata. The DDO is basically a JSON file with standardized metadata.

**A DID identifies your asset in the entire Ocean Ecosystem**.
Each asset has a different DID: DIDs are generated by using a [hash function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function) on the metadata (similar to  MD5 or [checksum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Checksum)), which produces a provably unique hex string (i.e. exempt from ‘collisions’ in cryptographic terms). DIDs make data assets discoverable and usable.

In Ocean, a DID is a string that looks like: *did:op:0ebed8226ada17fde24b6bf2b95d27f8f05fcce09139ff5cec31f6d81a7cd2ea*

Each type of asset (dataset or algorithm) has different kinds of services associated with them, which are specified in the asset DDO. There are many types of services that are added to all the assets:
- **Metadata** - describing the asset
- **Provenance** - describing the asset provenance
- **Download** - describing how the asset can be downloaded
- **Compute** - describing how the asset can be computed upon

This information about the asset is stored in its own DDO in a way that each asset has both a DID and a DDO.

Metadata in the DDO helps people interested in using a particular asset get a better idea of what the asset is, and what can be done with it.

The DDO is stored on the blockchain. This means that once the write-fee is paid, there are no further expenses or dev-ops work needed to ensure metadata availability in the future, aiding in the discoverability of data assets. Most metadata fields may be modified after creation by its *creator* or by *delegated users* and the blockchain records the provenance of changes.
