# Chapter 12: Buying and Selling Data using Ocean Protocol

<dialog character="jellyfish">Look how these marine creatures interact. Some stay still, some move around. They wander, they transact.</dialog>

**Storing an immutable reference**. In the previous chapter we learned that it’s 1) too expensive to directly upload data to the Ethereum blockchain and 2) it disables us to have any kind of control regarding the access of the data. So why don’t we just save our data in a place where we can control access and provide a link to the data on the blockchain? We can easily modify the store() function to accept a link and additional metadata to describe the data. Everyone can find a link to our data and access it then. But how do we control access to the data? We would also need to manage payments, sign-ups, data access control, provide an interface, advertise our data so that someone can find it at all. And at this point, we should realize that we do not need any blockchain to do this. Since nothing is happening on the blockchain anyways.

**Automation**. While we register for ten different marketplaces we realize that some of them want to charge us to register. It's comprehensible since every marketplace has additional costs to onboard users, but it's not optimal from a user standpoint. It would be easier to have a central repository to store information about your data, which anyone can querry. We would not need to register in every place individually to search for data. Since none of the marketplaces wants to become dependent on a single third party, the only available solution is to have an independent smart contract where everyone can register their data. A blockchain can enable collaboration among competitors, just like that.

**Introducing Ocean Protocol**. This is exactly what the protocol does. It implements standards on how to provide a valid link to the data, description, and further metadata. Now data marketplaces need only to query Ocean smart contracts to list available datasets. Payments for data exchanges is also part of the solution. When someone buys the data from a data marketplace the marketplace convert it into ETH and send it directly to the user, taking their fee. Now if you want to buy a new dataset you could just visit your favorite data marketplace and see which dataset matches your needs. Once you've found the right dataset, you pay the given price and receive an access token to obtain the data.

Ocean Protocol provides a standard way to do all of this. Eventually, it increases the quality of data markets since they can focus their limited resources on providing additional features that might be useful for their users instead of reimplementing a payment process yet again.
